# DataVis_Group5_Project1
This repo is for DataVis Group 5 project work 

Alonzo Morales: I added street intersection info from Minneapolis Centerline datafile to scooter datafile. I, then, using Geocoding API, obtained latitude and longitude for all scooter trips in the scooter datafile which included over 6,500 unique locations. I also obtained latitude and longitude for all neighborhoods in the Minneapolis crime datafile. Next, I plotted scooter locations on a map.Then, overlaid the scooter location map with the crime heatmap.

Mohamed Abdi: Took the total crime data in Minneapolis from 2017-2018. Cleaned up the data and organized it by neighborhood. Then I took a sum of all the crime in each neighborhood and made a dataframe. Converted that dataframe into a csv file and used that data to plot a map of Minneapolis and layer a heat map of crime over Minneapolis.

Chris Miller:  I combined the cities that the major scooter companies have operations, made an API call to get lat/lngs, which were converted to lists and visualized via jupyter gmaps.  I used seaborn to produce the boxplot summarizing mean crime rate for each type for the periods before the trial and during the trial.   I then used numpy to do a ttest on each crime category before and after to determine which changes were significant.  

Timothy Ayoade" To better understand the crime statistics before and after scotters were introduced to Minneapolis neigborhood, I created a time graph of all the crimes committed through a 23 month period; this serves as the building blocked in which additional analysis was carried out (i.e ttest) I also created a bar chart showing the averge crime committed in minneapolis for every year of the data we got i.e. 2017, 2018 and 2019; by first computing the total crimes committed in each year in all the neigborhoods and dividing it by the total counts of months the crimes were committed in all the neigbourhoods, then plottng the bar graph using matplotlib. Data import, analysis and cleansing was done using panda and numpy. The bar chart shows the visual increase or decease in crime, while the time graph tells the overall crime story. The most challenging huddle in this project was data cleansing; series of data cleansing tasks were carried out to ensure we had the best set of data to analyse.  
